hardware/reference/Breadboard-1/README.md, before:

# Breadboard-1

## About

The Breadboard-1 design was created to make development of software as
simple as possible.  The design goals were:

* Fit a standard 400 or 830 tie point breadboard.
* Have a connector for a PICKIT 4 or similar ICSP programmer.
* Operate at a modest power level (generally similar to N sccale).
* Have an easy to understand schmatic, suitable for teaching.
* Have an easy to understand PCB, suitable for teaching.
* Use low cost components.
* Include serial output capabilities for debugging and teaching.

## 3D Render

Actual size: 2" wide x 2.75" tall (not counting pins at top).

![Breadboard-1 3D Render](Breadboard-1.jpg)

## Intended Use Case

It is expected that most users would plug this device into a 400 tie point bread board,
connect an ICSP programmer like a PICKIT4, and power RL and RR from a DCC command station.

In this configuration the board can be used for software development purposes.  It will
allow software to be loaded onto the PIC, tested against a real DCC signal, and provide
visual confirmation of the actions being taken.

Functions are exposed to the breadboard so that alternative devices (e.g. grain of wheat
bulbs, alternative color/shape/intensity LEDs) can be connected and tested.

The motor is exposed to the breadboard so that an actual motor can be connected to test
motor drive logic.

## Schematic Walkthrough

View the [Breadboard-1.pdf](Breadboard-1.pdf) schematic without having to open KiCad!

## Supporting Material

* [CALCULATIONS.md](CALCULATIONS.md) discussions how component values were determined.
### Power Supply

Power from the two rails is fed into a bridge rectifier made up of
four discrete diodes D11-D14.  As DCC is a square wave, the output
is nearly but not quite continuous DC power with low ripple.  That
power is split off to drive the motor and functions directly, labeled
as Vdrive.  A linear regulator U11 is used to generate +5v for the
micro-processor, and has two support capacitors.

The project requirements for this design are to operate from 6v to 30v
of input.

### Micro-controller

A PIC18F06Q40 processor is used in this design.  PIC processors
require minimal support components.  C21 is a local bypass/decoupling
capacitor that is placed closed to the power pins.  C23 and R23
form a hold up circuit for MCLR which must be kept high during
normal operation.  If MCLR drops, the chip will reset.  R24 is
recommended by the datasheet to prevent chip damage when C23
discharges.

The following pins are left in their default locations:

- PGD, PGC to ease programming connections.
- RX, TX, to ease serial connections.
- MCLR, Vdd, Gnd, cannot be moved.

All other connections were placed to make routing the PCB traces
simpler.


### Motor Driver H-Bridge

This design uses a Texas Instruments 8870DDA motor driver IC.
It includes an integrated H-Bridge, gate driver circuitry, overload
protection and other features in a very small form factor.  There
are also multiple pin-compatable knock offs of this chip available.

In order to calculate BackEMF the resistors R31, R32 and R33 then 
reduce the voltage to an appropriate level for the analog input of the
micro-controller.  By monitoring this voltage the micro-controller
can calculate the load.

### Functions

This design supports functions F0-F6.

Functions F0F (front headlight) and F0R (rear headlight) are driven directly by the PIC.
In most designs these are fixed lights on the circuit board, so the exact current draw is
known in advance.  The resistors are sized to limit the LEDs to approximately 5ma when
driven by the 5v output.

Functions F1-F6 are designed to be connected to external device in a "common anode"
confuration.  To ease development this particular design provides both an LED and a 
connection for an external device.

Vdrive power is provided as a common anode source.  The MOSFET connects to ground when turned
on by the micro-processor.  A resistor is provided on the gate of each MOSFET to manage
inrush current.  An LED with resistor sized for track power are also installed so the
user needs no external lights.

### External Connectivity

Two 6-pin 0.1" (2.54mm) pin headers are provided for connectivity to a standard bread board.
The board has been physically designed to connect to the top of a bread board in positions
1-6 across the middle.  In a typical decoder these would be exposed as solder pads for wire
connections.

At the top of the board J3 provides a 5 pin ICSP header.  It's physical layout has been
designed so that a PICKIT4 programmer can be plugged in directly and will be face up at
the top of the board.  In a typical decoder these would be exposed as test points or solder
pads to allow the board to be programmed via a pogo pin adapter.

A 6 pin female header (optional) using the standard pinout for many
"USB to TTL Serial" adapters has been included.  A typical decoder
would not include this port. For software development purposes this
port is configured as a serial port allowing the use of functions
like `printf` or `putc` in the code.  This allows the programmer
to extract more information during the code debugging phase.

### Diagnostic LEDs

This decoder is not designed to go into a locomotive.  It's purpose
is to teach about DCC, and to enable rapid software development.
Because it is unlikely to be in a locomotive, diagnostic LEDs have
been added to F1-F6 and also the motor output.

For F0-F6 an appropriate LED + Resistor has been added so that there
is a visual indicator if a function is on or off.

For the motor output a bi-color Red/Green LED with an appropriate
resistor has been added across the motor output.  The color Red or
Green will indicate the motor direction, and the LED will vary in
intensity from the PWM drive of the motor.

### Dummy Load

When JP61 is installed a 100 Ohm resistor is connected to the motor outputs.  This
enables "readback" functionality without having a motor connected, or generating a
load on a command station when increasing the speed without having a motor attached.

If a real motor is attached, JP61 should be left open.

Commit message:

Bring documentation inline with previous technical updates.

hardware/reference/Breadboard-1/README.md, after:

# Breadboard-1

## About

The Breadboard-1 design was created to make development of software as
simple as possible.  The design goals were:

* Fit a standard 400 or 830 tie point breadboard.
* Have a connector for a PICKIT 4 or similar ICSP programmer.
* Operate at a modest power level (generally similar to N sccale).
* Have an easy to understand schmatic, suitable for teaching.
* Have an easy to understand PCB, suitable for teaching.
* Use low cost components.
* Include serial output capabilities for debugging and teaching.

## 3D Render

Actual size: 2" wide x 2.75" tall (not counting pins at top).

![Breadboard-1 3D Render](Breadboard-1.jpg)

## Intended Use Case

It is expected that most users would plug this device into a 400 tie point bread board,
connect an ICSP programmer like a PICKIT4, and power RL and RR from a DCC command station.

In this configuration the board can be used for software development purposes.  It will
allow software to be loaded onto the PIC, tested against a real DCC signal, and provide
visual confirmation of the actions being taken.

Functions are exposed to the breadboard so that alternative devices (e.g. grain of wheat
bulbs, alternative color/shape/intensity LEDs) can be connected and tested.

The motor is exposed to the breadboard so that an actual motor can be connected to test
motor drive logic.

## Schematic Walkthrough

View the [Breadboard-1.pdf](Breadboard-1.pdf) schematic without having to open KiCad!

## Supporting Material

* [CALCULATIONS.md](CALCULATIONS.md) discussions how component values were determined.
### Power Supply

Power from the two rails is fed into a bridge rectifier made up of
four discrete diodes D11-D14.  As DCC is a square wave, the output
is nearly but not quite continuous DC power with low ripple.  That
power is split off to drive the motor and functions directly, labeled
as Vdrive.  A linear regulator U11 is used to generate +5v for the
micro-processor, and has two support capacitors.

The project requirements for this design are to operate from 6v to 30v
of input.

### Micro-controller

A PIC18F06Q40 processor is used in this design.  PIC processors
require minimal support components.  C21 is a local bypass/decoupling
capacitor that is placed closed to the power pins.  C23 and R23
form a hold up circuit for MCLR which must be kept high during
normal operation.  If MCLR drops, the chip will reset.  R24 is
recommended by the datasheet to prevent chip damage when C23
discharges.

The following pins are left in their default locations:

- PGD, PGC to ease programming connections.
- RX, TX, to ease serial connections.
- MCLR, Vdd, Gnd, cannot be moved.

All other connections were placed to make routing the PCB traces
simpler.


### Motor Driver H-Bridge

This design uses a Texas Instruments 8870DDA motor driver IC.
It includes an integrated H-Bridge, gate driver circuitry, overload
protection and other features in a very small form factor.  There
are also multiple pin-compatable knock offs of this chip available.

In order to calculate BackEMF the resistors R31, R32 and R33 then 
reduce the voltage to an appropriate level for the analog input of the
micro-controller.  By monitoring this voltage the micro-controller
can calculate the load.

### Functions

This design supports functions F0-F6.

Functions F0F (front headlight) and F0R (rear headlight) are driven directly by the PIC.
In most designs these are fixed lights on the circuit board, so the exact current draw is
known in advance.  The resistors are sized to limit the LEDs to approximately 5ma when
driven by the 5v output.

Functions F1-F6 are designed to be connected to external device in a "common anode"
confuration.  To ease development this particular design provides both an LED and a 
connection for an external device.

Vdrive power is provided as a common anode source.  The MOSFET connects to ground when turned
on by the micro-processor.  A resistor is provided on the gate of each MOSFET to manage
inrush current.  An LED with resistor sized for track power are also installed so the
user needs no external lights.

### External Connectivity

Two 6-pin 0.1" (2.54mm) pin headers are provided for connectivity
to a standard bread board.  The board has been physically designed
to connect to the top of a bread board in positions 1-6 across the
middle.  In a typical decoder these would be exposed as solder pads
for wire connections.

One 5-pin 0.1" (2.54mm) pin header is provided for connecting an
oscilloscope.  The DCC signal as seen by the processor, the PWM
signal to the motor driver, and the BackEMF measurement are all
exposed, along with a ground.

One 5-pin 0.1" (2.54mm) pin header is provided for connecting an
ICSP programmer..  It's physical layout has been designed so that
a PICKIT4 programmer can be plugged in directly and will be face
up at the top of the board.  In a typical decoder these would be
exposed as test points or solder pads to allow the board to be
programmed via a pogo pin adapter.

One 5-pin 0.1" (2.54mm) pin header is provided for RS-232 serial
output.  The pin-order is typical of many "USB to TTL Serial"
adapters.  A typical decoder would not include this port. For
software development purposes this port is configured as a serial
port allowing the use of functions like `printf` or `putc` in the
code.  This allows the programmer to extract more information during
the code debugging phase.

### Diagnostic LEDs

This decoder is not designed to go into a locomotive.  It's purpose
is to teach about DCC, and to enable rapid software development.
Because it is unlikely to be in a locomotive, diagnostic LEDs have
been added to F1-F6 and also the motor output.

For F0-F6 an appropriate LED + Resistor has been added so that there
is a visual indicator if a function is on or off.

For the motor output a bi-color Red/Green LED with an appropriate
resistor has been added across the motor output.  The color Red or
Green will indicate the motor direction, and the LED will vary in
intensity from the PWM drive of the motor.

### Dummy Load

When JP61 is installed a 100 Ohm resistor is connected to the motor outputs.  This
enables "readback" functionality without having a motor connected, or generating a
load on a command station when increasing the speed without having a motor attached.

If a real motor is attached, JP61 should be left open.
