# Decoder Software Feature List

This list was generated by combining all manufacturers lists of features
to provide a master list of features that decoders might impmement.

## Function Features

These are features that apply to function outputs.  Some manufacturer names for these:

- DigiTrax FX Functions

### Constant Brightness Lighting

Function outputs operate at constant power regardless of speed.

### Dimmable Outputs

Overall brightness of the outputs can be selected by the user.

### LED or Incandescent Operation

LED and incandescent bulbs need to be driven differently.  Incandescent
will naturally ramp up and down, and that time period needs to be 
accounted for when flashing lights.  LEDs are instant, and must be driven
with a variable PWM signal to simulate the same effect.

### Real World Effects

Blinking patterns to match real world applications

- Ditch Lights
- Mars Lights
- Gyra Lights
- Rotary Beacon
- Single Pulse Strobe Lights
- Double Pulse Strobe Lights
- Random Flicker / Firebox
- Rule 17 Dimming

### Pulse Function

When activated, the function generates a pulse rather than staying active.

### Speed/Direction/Headlight Dependent

Function behavior will alter based on the speed, direction, and if the
headlight (F0) is on or off.

### Function Mapping

Allows the user to alter the mapping between DCC function identifiers
and function outputs on the decoder.

### SUSI Interface

A propretary Dietz interface called the Serial User System Interface.  It
allows a decoder to communicate with additional modules, typically an 
add-on sound board but possibly also things like a smoke generator in
larger scales.

## Motor Features

These are features that apply to how the motor is controlled.  Some manufacturer names for these:

- DigiTrax LocoMotion(R) System
- TCS Keep-Alive(TM)

### PWM Motor Drive

Often marketed with the word Quiet to reference that the PWM drive is configured
so that the motor will not omit noise.  This is typically done by using a relatively
high frequency PWM signal.

### BackEMF / Load Compensation

### Torque Compensation

### 14/28/128 Speed Step Operation

### Momentum

### User Selectable NDOT

### Switching Speed

Also called a "shunting gear" by European manufacturers.  This maps user speeds into
approximately the lower 50% of the speed table to provide enhanced slow speed control
for switching operations.

### 3 Step Speed Tables

A Vmin, Vmid, Vmax value for doing basic speed adjustment.

### 28 Step Speed Tables

## General Addressing/Programming Features

### 2 or 4 digit addressing.

### Address, Register, Paged, and Direct Mode

Which types of programming the decoder will recognize.

### Reset decoder without speed table reset

### Decoder Lock

### Basic, Advanced, & UniVersal Consisting

## Transponding

### RailCom(R)

A standard for bidrectional communication between the locomotive and the command station.

### Hour Meter

Keeps track of how long the locomotive has been moving to track the overall usage.

### Automatic Operation

The ability to automatically stop or start in response to signals, or reverse to form
a "shuttle service".

